The social transformation Sri Lanka needs today is not a mere change of government
or filling of the spaces left by the departure of a ruling group. It is a massive social
transformation beyond the reformation of just one or two sectors – in essence, a
renaissance. It is the realization of the dream of a developed Sri Lanka that was stifled
by corrupt regimes of the past. This is the dream of pioneering individuals produced by
Sri Lanka in the post-independence period in various fields, such as engineering, health,
education, art, literature, and human rights, who tried to lay solid foundations within those
fields. Governance under the NPP will become a renaissance era because this dream that
emerged in the twentieth century but was stifled and squandered can finally be realized in
the twenty-first century.
Developing a production-based economy is our singular aim and guiding principle.
For this reason, many of our policies are focused on areas such as mineral resources,
information and software technology, tourism industry, agriculture, marine resources,
and creative industries (e.g., art, cinema, literature, music, theatre, etc.) that can utilize
resources found within the country, be easily developed, and can be mobilized by the
professional and trained labour resources we already have. Science and technology will be
the key players in our proposed production-based economy.
NPP regards education, health, and transportation as essential public services and plans
to increase resource allocation in all these fields. We believe that education is a primary
responsibility of the government, and therefore, we commit to reducing the burden of
education placed on parents. Furthermore, efforts will be made to gradually eliminate the
disparity in education across the country resulting from the inequality in the distribution
of resources. Vocational education will be mainstreamed as part of the national education
policy to fill the gap between education and the job market. We see vocational education as
a significant factor in developing the professionals needed to create a production economy.
Our health policy focuses on increasing financial allocations to the public health sector
to develop it as an effective public service. Further, we propose integrating the Western
medical system with the Indigenous and Ayurvedic medical systems currently practised
