                                                                  
 NAMAL VISION
FOR YOU
A DEVELOPED COUNTRY

Venerable Monks, Priests, Brothers and Sisters,
My Vision For A Developed Sri Lanka
In the 76 years since independence, the decade of 2005-2014 marked its Golden Era. The very purpose of politics was redefined by His Excellency President Mahinda Rajapaksa with his unparalleled service for our motherland through his unwavering courage and brave leadership. He ended the brutal war that destroyed the progress that was to be of our motherland for 30 years. He brought about the dignified freedom of living in one country for all Sri Lankans.
He did not stop there and launched the Mahinda Chinthana programme which would lift Sri Lanka towards a developed state. All Sri Lankans, united by equality in diversity worked hand in hand to make Sri Lanka the fastest-growing country in the world.
We built modern strategic national assets such as the Colombo Port City, Hambantota Port and Mattala Airport based on a long-term plan with clear economic growth targets. The transportation system covering the entire country, including highways and miles-long bridges, was built to connect the North and the South and distribute the opportunities and benefits of development to the entire nation. New power plants and irrigation systems were built to meet all that development needs. Marvels such as the Lotus Tower were built to provide modern technological facilities to the youth. None of them were isolated constructs. They are all interrelated sustainable national resources.
But Sri Lanka was dragged back into a dark age by the government that was elected in 2015. The hard-won freedom by the heroes who sacrificed their lives was completely stalled in just four failed years. The amount of public debt increased and by 2019, the country's economy was about to collapse. State security weakened and eventually, terrorism rose its ugly head. Mother Lanka again succumbed to a miserable fate.
It is with great hope that you elected the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna in 2020 to rebuild our broken motherland. But just as we started to raise our head again, disaster struck. The deadly COVID-19 virus ravaged our country and the entire world for two long years. After being shut down for months, the country's economy deteriorated further. But with the help of the armed forces, health professionals and public service as well as all those who volunteered, we managed to save the lives of hundreds of thousands of people who otherwise would have succumbed to the plague. Even during that very difficult period, we were able to pay salaries to all government employees, subsidise the low-income residents, vaccinate all people, and even pay instalments for the loans taken by the previous governments.
FOR YOU A DEVELOPED COUNTRY
  2

NAMAL VISION
 But the economic crisis, which was already severe, worsened. I admit that more suitable decisions could have been taken regarding certain matters. The people who suffered due to all these issues took to the streets to release their pressure. But the people's struggle was soon turned to violence by some local and foreign forces to achieve their heinous political agendas. At that critical moment, we stepped down without harming any of the protesters, because our state is worth a million times more to us than political position power. It was a valuable lesson for the whole world about non-violence in governance.
I have the political experience gained as an elected Member of Parliament for 14 consecutive years and as a Minister during a very challenging two-year period. At the age of 38, as the youngest presidential candidate in history, I wholeheartedly accepted the challenge of running for this year's presidential election from the Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna. I have the obligation to build a developed country for you by protecting the national policies of the left-leaning political camp founded by the likes of S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike and D. A. Rajapaksa.
By integrating sustainable solutions for the challenges of the 21st century, and the modern technological revolution with Mahinda Chinthana, let us start again from where the development of this country was stopped. I am ready to shoulder that challenge. I only expect your blessings. I respectfully present to you my policy programme titled Namal Vision to Build a Developed Country For You.
I pledge to you that the country that was broken by the economic crisis will be freed from it and developed safely, just as Mahinda Rajapaksa liberated and united the country that was torn apart by war. I pledge to protect the unity of our country, protect the democratic values of the republic, protect the state assets, protect the Sambuddha Sasana, and protect the freedom of all citizens while achieving the development you expect.
For you,
Namal Rajapaksa
